'\"!
'\"
'\"                        Copyright (c) 1988,1990 Bellcore
'\"                            All Rights Reserved
'\"       Permission is granted to copy or use this program, EXCEPT that it
'\"       may not be sold for profit, the copyright notice must be reproduced
'\"       on copies, and credit should be given to Bellcore where it is due.
'\"       BELLCORE MAKES NO WARRANTY AND ACCEPTS NO LIABILITY FOR THIS PROGRAM.
'\"
'\"	$Header: bitmap.5,v 4.2 88/07/18 08:07:32 sau Exp $
'\"	$Source: /tmp/mgrsrc/doc/RCS/bitmap.5,v $
.TH bitmap 5L "April 30, 1986"
.SH NAME
Bitmap \- Bitmap header format for
.I mgr
bitmaps.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include "dump.h"
.SH DESCRIPTION
There are two styles of bitmaps recognized by 
.B MGR ,
The old machine dependent format, and the new portable format.
.LP
Old bitmap files are prepended with a 6 byte ascii header which contains:
1) a two byte magic number, 2) a 2 byte bitmap width, and 3) a two byte
bitmap height. 
The bitmap data follows the header in raster scan order,
with each row padded out to a 16 bit boundary.
.LP
The new, portable bitmap format consists of an 8 byte ascii header containing:
1) a two byte magic number, 2) a 2 byte bitmap width, 3) a two byte bitmap
height, a single byte bitmap depth, and 1 reserved byte.
The bitmap data follows the header in raster scan order, with each row 
padded to a byte boundary.
.LP
For different types of displays, MGR represents bitmaps
internally with each row padded to 8, 16, or 32 bit boundaries,
which ever makes the most sense for the particular hardware.
The internal format in use by MGR is avaliable to application programs
via a GET_INFO call.
MGR will accept any of the above row alignments, differentiated by the
magic number in the bitmap header.
However, if the external format matches the internal one, bitmaps may be
processed more efficiently by the server.
.LP
The following macros, defined in
.I dump.h
may be useful for dealing with bitmap headers:
.TP
B_HSIZE
The bitmap header size in bytes.
.TP
B_GETHDR(header,width,height)
extracts the
.I width
and
.I 
height
from the B_HSIZE buffer
.I header
.TP
B_PUTHDR(header,width,height)
produces a bitmap header for a bitmap
.I width
bits wide and
.I height
bits high.
.TP
B_ISHDR(header)
returns true if
.I header
is a valid bitmap header
.TP
B_SIZE(width,height)
returns the size in bytes (not including the header)
of a bitmap
.I width
bits wide and
.I height
bits high.
.TP
B_MAGIC
is a pointer to a character string whose first 2 bytes
are the bitmap header magic number.
.SH BUGS
.TP 
*
The existence of two different bitmap formats is unfortunate.
The old format should go away when the programs that use it are
rewritten.
.TP
*
The file "dump.h" gives a more accurate description of multitude of 
bitmap formats.
.SH SEE ALSO
mgr(1L)
