'\"!
'\"                        Copyright (c) 1988 Bellcore
'\"                            All Rights Reserved
'\"       Permission is granted to copy or use this program, EXCEPT that it
'\"       may not be sold for profit, the copyright notice must be reproduced
'\"       on copies, and credit should be given to Bellcore where it is due.
'\"       BELLCORE MAKES NO WARRANTY AND ACCEPTS NO LIABILITY FOR THIS PROGRAM.
'\"
'\"	$Header: menu.1,v 4.1 88/06/21 13:51:43 bianchi Exp $
'\"	$Source: /tmp/mgrsrc/doc/RCS/menu.1,v $
.TH MENU 1 "Documented 6/6/86       Local"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
menu \-
create or select an mgr pop-up menu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B menu
[
.B \-options
]
[
menufile(s)
]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Menu
downloads or selects a pop-up menu for the mgr window manager for a Sun
workstations.
.SH OPTIONS
.ti-4
-sn selects the menu previously loaded into position n; that is,
it binds the menu in position n to the middle mouse button.
No downloading takes place.
.sp
.ti-3
-s by itself allows downloading of a new menu, without it being selected.
.sp
.ti-4
-ln causes loading of a new menu 
into position n.  By default, n is 1.
The loaded menu is also selected (unless -s was specified).
.sp
.tr ~
.ti-4
-n"Name of Menu"~~ specifies a name for the menu.  Alternatively,
a name may be specified by one or more lines of the form 
name=anything in the menu file.  By default, the name of the menu
is taken to be the name of the input file converted to upper-case.
The menu's name is displayed at the top of the menu.
-n by itself suppresses the name altogether.
.sp
.ti-4
-fn specifies that the font loaded into font postion n will
used for the menu.  Default is 6.
.sp
.ti-4
-d<char>~~ indicates that <char> will be used instead of the default,
TAB,
to delimit items from actions in the menu file.
.sp
The named input files (or standard input by default) should contain one
item-action pair per line, delimited by by one or more
delimiter characters (TABs by default). Items and actions are arbitrary
character strings not containing the delimiter character.
The items are displayed in the pop-up menu,
and the user is allowed to select an item
using the mouse and middle button.  The corresponding action string is
then written to the standard input of the process running in the window.
If an action ends with \\c, the newline character following the action is suppressed.
.sp
Optionally, the menu file may begin with
a delim=<char> line to specify an alternate delimiter,
followed by any number of name=anything lines
to specify one or more lines of menu name, and a font=n line to select a 
font.
.BUGS
The total number of characters in all actions and items may not exceed
approximately 1000.
.ne 15
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
menu <<!
delim=:
name=    FRUITS
name=--------------
apples:echo apples
oranges:echo oranges
pears:echo pears
passion fruit:echo passion fruit
three cherries:echo Jackpot!
!
.SH AUTHOR
Paul A. Tukey (bellcore!paul)
